I build this AI chatbot running
completely locally on my computer. All
your data remains private using a
powerful open source tool called Nexa
XDK. Run any AI model on any back end.
That is a bold statement. But here you
see the result. Nexa SDK supporting
neural processing unit MLX full
multimodal support crossplatform
one line to run open AAI compatible API.
So when compared with Olama, Olama
doesn't support MLX yet. It doesn't
support NPU and doesn't support full
modality such as audio nexa infer and
the model name to run any model locally
on your computer. just few lines of code
to build your AI chatbot with a built-in
server and currently it is popular and
I'm going to take you through step by
step how you can install this locally on
your computer download the available
models create a chatbot and integrate
this model with this application using
Nexa SDK I'll provide all the code in
the description below for you to try
that out and that's exactly what we're
going to see today let's get started
[music]
and thanks to Nexa AI for sponsoring
this video. Nexa SDK run the latest LMS
and VLMs across GPU, NPU, CPU, and
mobile. Run AI models 100% local for
free. And this is the developer toolkit
for running any AI model locally across
NPUs, GPUs, and CPUs. Powered by Nexa ML
engine, entirely built from scratch by
Nexa team. It supports GGUF and MLX
which most of the other SDK doesn't
support. Even the latest Quen 3 VL 4B
and 8B can be run using this. Now just
going to run one line of command and
download Quen 3 the latest model in GGF
format and then clicking enter that will
automatically download the model and
load it for me. This is a visual
language model. So I can drag any image
here and ask what is this and that can
read the image and in that image it says
visual studio code AI test automation.
Let's verify that. So this is the image
I uploaded and that is correct.
Similarly you got various models for
various tasks including speech
recognition.
Download Nexus CLI with one click. So
I'm using Mac OS ARM 64. So going to
click that. It also supports Windows or
Linux. So you can download accordingly.
So for now I'm going to click ARM 64. It
got downloaded. Now I'm just opening it.
Clicking continue to install. Now it's
installing. And that is all done. Now
step number two. Open your terminal from
your computer. There I'm going to type
Nexa info and then the model name like
this. And then click enter. This will
automatically download this model. Now
it's similar to O Lama and you can ask
any question how are you and it's going
to give me the answer. Similarly I've
got various options here in the CLI such
as loading the conversation saving the
conversation audio for transcription if
I'm using audio model such as whisper
which you can try that here and I've got
clear and exit option. So for now I'm
going to exit from here. So the test
worked. Step number three I need to
start the server. To start the server is
simple. Nexa serve and then click enter.
And here you can see local hosting on
this URL. Now the server is on. So I'm
just going to open this URL. And here is
that URL. The server is running with all
these endpoints. Which means now we can
build application and talk to this AI
model directly from our application. You
can even create multiple AI agents to
interact with this. For now we are going
to create one chatbot with one agent.
So I'm going to keep this terminal
running and going to open a new terminal
by clicking this plus icon. Next step I
need to install the required package. So
pip install, open AI and chain lit.
OpenAI is the main package which we are
going to use to create the application
to talk to Nexa AI and chain lit is for
creating the user interface. After this
click enter and it got installed now.
Now I'm going to create a file called
app.py and then open it. inside the file
from open AAI import open AAI next
client equals open AAI and this is the
URL which we got before and the API key
just a random API key next client chat
completions create with the model name
which we have just downloaded with a
system message you are helpful assistant
and the user message give me a meal plan
for me today so this is the task which
I'm going to give to this AI model and
you can give any other task task similar
to this. So after this I'm going to
print the response and that's it. Just
few lines of code and you have created a
chatbot using Python. Now I'm going to
run this code. Going back to a terminal
I'm going to type python app. py and
then click enter. It's going to give me
the meal plan. And here is the answer.
General meal plan for a day, breakfast,
lunch, dinner, and snacks. So that's all
done. Now the response appeared at once.
So it waited for around 10 seconds and
everything came at once. But the user
friendly way is to display in a
streaming way as and when it gets
generated. So I'm going to modify this
code slightly. So here I'm going to
mention stream equals true then printing
the response one by one in this loop. So
this automatically prints step by step.
So this is the overall code and that's
it. Now I'm going to run this. Coming
back to my terminal. Same like that
python stream. py that's where I've
stored my code. Now you can see it's
slowly getting printed out in a user
friendly way and that is really nice.
Next I need to create a user interface
for this chatbot because currently it's
running in the terminal. Again I'm going
to slightly modify this code. This time
I'm using chainlit. import chain lit as
cl with the base URL as the same. The
model name. So here two decorator you
need to remember. One is on chat start.
When the chat starts, you're going to
tell the AI model or you can even use
this to save your message history. So
that's whenever you load the page. So
whenever you type a message, so that's
when on message. So that message will be
sent to client chat completions.create.
So before we hardcoded our question here
but now we are passing it dynamically
and printing out the response same as
before step by step and saving the
message history so it knows the context.
That's it only few lines of code and our
user interface is ready. Now I'm going
to run this code. Coming back to my
terminal I'm going to type chainlit run
ui. py and then click enter. Now I can
see the app is running in this URL. So
going to open this URL and here is the
URL. This is how it looks. So here I'm
going to type give me a meal plan for me
today. And now it's generating me the
response and this is really nice. And
now we have successfully built a chatbot
running completely local on your
computer using Nexa SDK and all your
data remains private. Even you can
upload a data and ask question based on
that. As simple as that.
Implementing rag retrieval augmented
generation using Nexa. Rag involves two
different steps. First step when you
upload a data or any private document or
PDF automatically it'll get divided into
chunks. Then it's converted to
embeddings and stored that in the
database. Embeddings are nothing but
numbers which is used to understand the
similarity. And the step number two when
the user ask question relevant
information is searched in the database
semantically and sent to the large
language model that is our AI chatbot
and it is going to respond more
accurately considering it has the
context or the information about the
private data. So this is exactly what
we're going to do for database we are
going to use vector database that is
chromb to store these vectors. For
embeddings, we are using all mini LM. So
I've just modified the code, just added
the embedding model to convert to
embeddings and imported chromb to store
the vector data and PDF reader to
convert the PDF into text. For each
function such as for embedding, I
created a function get embedding. For
dividing that text into chunks, I
created a function called chunk text. If
you want to know more about chunking
strategy, I'll put the link in the
description below. As we see here, when
the user uploads the data, it need to
divide it into chunks. So that's what we
see here in the UI, we are uploading a
file. That file gets converted to text
using the PDF reader. Next, it's divided
to chunks same like as shown in the
image. Next, it's going to get stored in
the Chroma database. So here is Chroma
DB. So to add each chunk I'm adding that
like this going through chunk one by one
adding collection add to add each chunk
and that is the first step. So that is
when you start the chat. So step number
two on message that is when the user is
going to ask a question. So that
question will be searched from the
vector database. So it's querying the
vector database to find the top three
results. Then that information is passed
as context with the chat history to the
AI model using chat.comp
completions.create same as the previous
step and we are going to get more
accurate answer. So that's all it is
just two different steps and now I'm
going to run this code. So coming back
to my terminal, additionally I need to
install pi PDF to convert PDF to text
then chromb as a vector database
sentence transformers that's for using
the embedding model and then click
enter. Now it all got installed. Change
it to run rag. py and then click enter.
rag. py is the file where I've stored my
content. First it's loading the
embedding model. Then I can access the
application in this URL. So I'm going to
open this URL and here is the
application. So I can open a file. It's
a file about agentic AI and it got
uploaded indexed 12 chunks. You can now
ask questions. I'm going to ask tell me
what is written in this IBM file. Now it
started processing at the back end. You
can see automatically all those chunks
getting converted to embeddings and
getting stored to vector database. And
the answer is here summary of the text
provided. And that is really nice. This
is the rack chatbot. I recently came
across this Nexa SDK and I'm really
impressed with that. Do try and let me
know in the comments below what you
think about this. I hope you like this
video. Do like, share, and subscribe.
And thanks
